docs/docs/framework-description.md, before:

## NMSAT architecture overview:

![alt-text](/images/global_illustration-01.png)
The framework is built on a modular structure, which can be divided into six main elements (the core modules):
  
  * **Parameters:** complex nested dictionaries, specified as an independent file. Typically this is the most sensitive aspect of the whole framework as the structure and contents of these dictionaries determines all the specificities of the experiments. Different sub-dictionaries should be created for each type of parameters (see [parameters](/parameters))
  
  * **Input Architect:** handles all the generation and preprocessing of input stimuli and signals. Being quite flexible, it is difficult to describe a single workflow for Input Architect, but in the relatively complex scenario illustrated above, it would consist of a `StimulusSet` object, which wraps multiple stimulus sequences (as labelled, binary feature vectors, subdivided into train and test set, for example), an `InputSignalSet`, which contains all the input signals generated from the stimulus sequences, according to the chosen transduction strategy, as well as instances of input noise which can be added to the signal or provided as an independent input. Finally, the `EncodingLayer` consists of generators (NEST devices) and/or encoders (Population objects, typically spiking neurons). Note that, any of these components can be removed or manually specified, for example, it may be important to provide a very specific `InputSignal`, which can be loaded as a numpy array. In this alternative scenario, the `StimulusSet` would be unnecessary. Stimulus sets can also be manually generated and loaded onto the framework.
  
  * **Network Architect:** 
  
  * **Analysis:**

Note that, depending on the experiment, not all of the components are necessary and it is frequently the case that only sub-sets of these modules are used in a given experiment (see [examples](/examples)), depending on the nature of the input stimuli (if any), the nature of the circuit and what is intended to be measured.

## Code structure

The code is organized as follows:


```
├── nmsat
│   ├── modules
│   │   ├── parameters.py
│   │   ├── input_architect.py
│   │   ├── net_architect.py
│   │   ├── signals.py
│   │   ├── analysis.py
│   │   ├── visualization.py
│   │   ├── io.py
│   ├── defaults
│   │   ├── paths.py
│   │   ├── matplotlib_rc
│   │   ├── cluster_templates
│   │   │   ├── cluster_jdf.sh
│   ├── data
│   ├── projects
│   │   ├── project_name
│   │   │   ├── computations
│   │   │   ├── parameters
│   │   │   │   ├── preset
│   │   │   ├── scripts
│   │   │   ├── read_data
│   ├── export
```


The core functionality lies in the modules packages, which contain all the relevant classes and
functions used. The specifics will be explained in greater detail below, but in general the modules
are responsible for:

* `parameters` - parsing and preparing all parameters files; retrieving stored parameter sets and
spaces and harvesting data
* `input_architect` - generating and setting up all the relevant input stimuli and signals; handling
input data; generating and connecting input encoding layers
* `net_architect` - generating specific networks and neuronal populations; generating all connectivity and topology features; 
connecting populations; ...
* `signals` - wrapping and processing the various signal types used in the framework (spiking activity,
analog variables, etc)
* `analysis` - post-processing and analysing population activity in various ways
* `visualization` - plotting routines
* `io` - loading and saving data

Commit message:

Updated io.py to create data folder automatically. Fixed broken link in README. Updated documentation to better describe the folder and data output structure, extended release notes.

docs/docs/framework-description.md, after:

## NMSAT architecture overview:

![alt-text](/images/global_illustration-01.png)
The framework is built on a modular structure, which can be divided into six main elements (the core modules):
  
  * **Parameters:** complex nested dictionaries, specified as an independent file. Typically this is the most sensitive aspect of the whole framework as the structure and contents of these dictionaries determines all the specificities of the experiments. Different sub-dictionaries should be created for each type of parameters (see [parameters](/parameters))
  
  * **Input Architect:** handles all the generation and preprocessing of input stimuli and signals. Being quite flexible, it is difficult to describe a single workflow for Input Architect, but in the relatively complex scenario illustrated above, it would consist of a `StimulusSet` object, which wraps multiple stimulus sequences (as labelled, binary feature vectors, subdivided into train and test set, for example), an `InputSignalSet`, which contains all the input signals generated from the stimulus sequences, according to the chosen transduction strategy, as well as instances of input noise which can be added to the signal or provided as an independent input. Finally, the `EncodingLayer` consists of generators (NEST devices) and/or encoders (Population objects, typically spiking neurons). Note that, any of these components can be removed or manually specified, for example, it may be important to provide a very specific `InputSignal`, which can be loaded as a numpy array. In this alternative scenario, the `StimulusSet` would be unnecessary. Stimulus sets can also be manually generated and loaded onto the framework.
  
  * **Network Architect:** 
  
  * **Analysis:**

Note that, depending on the experiment, not all of the components are necessary and it is frequently the case that only sub-sets of these modules are used in a given experiment (see [examples](/examples)), depending on the nature of the input stimuli (if any), the nature of the circuit and what is intended to be measured.

## Code structure

The code is organized as follows:


```
├── nmsat
│   ├── modules
│   │   ├── parameters.py
│   │   ├── input_architect.py
│   │   ├── net_architect.py
│   │   ├── signals.py
│   │   ├── analysis.py
│   │   ├── visualization.py
│   │   ├── io.py
│   ├── defaults
│   │   ├── paths.py
│   │   ├── matplotlib_rc
│   │   ├── cluster_templates
│   │   │   ├── cluster_jdf.sh
│   ├── data
│   ├── projects
│   │   ├── project_name
│   │   │   ├── computations
│   │   │   ├── parameters
│   │   │   │   ├── preset
│   │   │   ├── scripts
│   │   │   ├── read_data
│   ├── export
```


The core functionality lies in the `modules` package, which contain all the relevant classes and
functions used. The specifics will be explained in greater detail below, but in general the modules
are responsible for:

* `parameters` - parsing and preparing all parameters files; retrieving stored parameter sets and
spaces and harvesting data
* `input_architect` - generating and setting up all the relevant input stimuli and signals; handling
input data; generating and connecting input encoding layers
* `net_architect` - generating specific networks and neuronal populations; generating all connectivity and topology features; 
connecting populations; ...
* `signals` - wrapping and processing the various signal types used in the framework (spiking activity,
analog variables, etc)
* `analysis` - post-processing and analysing population activity in various ways
* `visualization` - plotting routines
* `io` - loading and saving data

The `defaults` package contains a module, `paths.py`, for setting paths to various directories and files 
(output, cluster templates, etc.), a custom matplotlib configuration and a default template for running NMSAT on clusters.
 All these can be modified according to each user's particular needs.
  
Created only during the first run, the `data` folder contains the project-specific output of the experiments if the 
user chooses to save the output. Note that the `data` directory is, by default, shared by all projects and is located at 
the root `nmsat` level and not within individual projects. However, this can be easily modified by setting the proper 
 paths in `/defaults/paths.py`. For more on the output structure, see 
 [Simulation output](/standard-use-case/#simulation-output).
 
The `/projects` folder contains individual experiments and the corresponding files. For more, check out the 
[next section](/standard-use-case/).
 
When running an experiment on a cluster, the scripts required to submit jobs will be created in the `/export` folder. 
 Read more on how to run experiments on clusters [here](/standard-use-case/#cluster).
